One night they saw one star that shone brighter than all others. Its
location was far away in the south, near a mountain peak. For many
nights it was seen, till at length it was doubted by many that the star
was as far distant in the southern skies as it seemed to be. This doubt
led to an examination, which proved the star to be only a short distance
away, and near the tops of some trees. A number of warriors were deputed
to go and see what it was. They went, and on their return said it
appeared strange, and somewhat like a bird. A committee of the wise men
were called to inquire into, and if possible to ascertain the meaning
of, the strange phenomenon. They feared that it might be the omen of
some disaster. Some thought it a precursor of good, others of evil; and
some supposed it to be the star spoken of by their forefathers as the
forerunner of a dreadful war.

One moon had nearly gone by, and yet the mystery remained unsolved. One
night a young warrior had a dream, in which a beautiful maiden came and
stood at his side, and thus addressed him: "Young brave! charmed with
the land of my forefathers, its flowers, its birds, its rivers, its
beautiful lakes, and its mountains clothed with green, I have left my
sisters in yonder world to dwell among you. Young brave! ask your wise
and your great men where I can live and see the happy race continually;
ask them what form I shall assume in order to be loved."

Thus discoursed the bright stranger. The young man awoke. On stepping
out of his lodge he saw the star yet blazing in its accustomed place. At
early dawn the chief's crier was sent round the camp to call every
warrior to the council lodge. When they had met, the young warrior
related his dream. They concluded that the star that had been seen in
the south had fallen in love with mankind, and that it was desirous to
dwell with them.

The next night five tall, noble-looking, adventurous braves were sent to
welcome the stranger to earth. They went and presented to it a pipe of
peace, filled with sweet-scented herbs, and were rejoiced that it took
it from them. As they returned to the village, the star, with expanded
wings, followed, and hovered over their homes till the dawn of day.
Again it came to the young man in a dream, and desired to know where it
should live and what form it should take. Places were named--on the top
of giant trees, or in flowers. At length it was told to choose a place
itself, and it did so. At first it dwelt in the white rose of the
mountains; but there it was so buried that it could not be seen. It went
to the prairie; but it feared the hoof of the buffalo. It next sought
the rocky cliff; but there it was so high that the children, whom it
loved most, could not see it.

"I know where I shall live," said the bright fugitive--"where I can see
the gliding canoe of the race I most admire. Children!--yes, they shall
be my playmates, and I will kiss their slumber by the side of cool
lakes. The nation shall love me wherever I am."

These words having been said, she alighted on the waters, where she saw
herself reflected. The next morning thousands of white flowers were seen
on the surface of the lakes, and the Indians gave them this name,
_wah-be-gwan-nee_ (white flower).
